[Music]
hello good morning to you
welcome to breakfast with dan walker and
louise mentioned the headline is for you
at six o'clock on this monday morning
seven mass coronavirus vaccination
centers capable of injecting thousands
of people a week
open across england this morning
we're live at one of them this is epson
racecourse
in surrey with hopes pinned on the
vaccines
as hospital admissions continue to rise
england's chief medical officer
that's professor chris witte will be
here at 7 30
to answer your questions senior
democrats in the u.s set out their plans
to remove president trump from office
or have him impeached remembering the
so-called forgotten good morning reports
there could be financial help
on its way for some of the millions left
out of the government's support schemes
i'll take a look the fa cup
upsets just keep on coming crawleytown
playing the game of their lives
to knock out premier league side leads
and reach the fourth round
good morning it's a milder day for most
of us today but fairly cloudy and
blustery
with some rain in the north and west
falling as snow in the highlands and
grampians
i'll have more details in about 10
minutes
good morning it's monday it's the 11th
of january the top story for you this
morning is that seven mass vaccination
centers are opening across england this
morning
as the government increases its effort
to protect 15 million the most
vulnerable people by the middle of next
month
nhs england says these new sites mean
thousands of jabs will be delivered
every week
as our health correspondent jim reed
reports
from today this will become one of the
largest vaccination sites
in the country ashton gates stadium in
bristol
has been converted into a huge
vaccination center
the south concourse will be open 12
hours a day
delivering thousands of doses a week if
there is enough supply
to go around it's one of
seven mass vaccination centers being
opened in england
from surrey to manchester with more
planned in the coming months
okay here we are to start with locals
over 80 years old
plus health and social care staff will
be contacted
and asked to book an appointment we do
need to be vaccinating
hundreds of thousands of people a day if
we're going to get a grip
of this this this pandemic within this
country and across the world
so it's not just a matter of a thousand
people coming to the gp practices about
hundreds of thousands of people more gp
and hospital sites will also
open this week as the government tries
to hit his target of reaching 15 million
of the most vulnerable by mid-february
that's after what critics say has been a
slow start to the vaccine rollout
in places you may end up with a bruise
in scotland more clinics should also
start to receive the oxford astrazeneca
jab
this week and the welsh government is
due to publish its new vaccination plan
this afternoon
it comes as the pressure on the nhs
shows no sign of letting up
a record 32 000 covered patients are in
hospital in the uk
a figure that has doubled in six weeks
the most senior nurse in england posted
this video online
after finishing her shift at the weekend
these are tough times please follow the
rules
these nurses and their colleagues are
working so hard
and thank you to each and every one of
them
it's hoped the vaccine rollout can start
to relieve
some of that pressure but with
infections still rising
sharply nhs staff are still likely to
have months of tough work
ahead of them jim reid bbc news
well andy moore is outside epsom
racecourse in surrey which is one of
those new
mass vaccination sites andy good morning
to you it's um i would imagine a very
busy day ahead
certainly it will be a busy day here
vaccinations due to start in uh about uh
two
hours time here and if you just see
through into one of the stands you can
see
the vaccinations ready to go there you
can see an area where people will sit
out for about
15 minutes afterwards just so somebody
can keep an eye on them in case there's
an adverse reaction
the whole process we're told will last
less than an hour so
how are we getting on with the
vaccination program across the country
well the health secretary matt hancock
says 2 million people
have already been vaccinated about a
third of the over 80s we're vaccinating
we're told
about 200 000 a day in england alone
now to get 15 million people in those
high risk categories
vaccinated by the middle of february
we've got to raise that to something
like
400 000 which is why these big centers
are needed and so they will be taking in
people from
about up to 45 minutes away 130 000
invitations have already been
sent sent out uh 500 000 more to come
in the coming week now some people
elderly people over 80
may not wish to travel that far as quite
a distance they may not wish to come to
a center that would be quite busy with
lots of other
people remember these are people have
been shielding and they're being told
that they don't have to come to these
places they can wait and go to their
local gp
or to their local hospital the advice
don't turn up here on spec
and wait to be invited by your gp the
advice is uh
don't contact us we contact you okay
andy thank you very much we'll be
there back in epson throughout the
morning for you and i know
because we have had many hundreds of
them that so many of you have questions
for the chief medical officer for
england professor chris witte he's going
to be here
um at 7 30 to answer as many of those as
we can get through um so 7 30.
uh we're collating them right now so if
you want any more send them in
elsewhere this morning u.s democrats
have laid out their plans to remove
president donald trump from office
before starting an impeachment process
it comes after the president was accused
of encouraging his supporters to storm
the capitol building in washington last
week our north america correspondent
peter bose
has more president trump has been widely
blamed for inciting the violence behind
last week's assault on the u.s capitol
egging on his supporters an insurrection
at the heart of american democracy
mr trump has one and a half weeks of his
term in office remaining
but democrats and some senior members of
his own party
want him out now the house of
representatives is to vote on a
resolution
urging the vice president mike pence and
the cabinet
to declare president trump unfit for the
job
i like the 25th amendment because it
gets rid of him
he's out of office but there is
strong support in the congress for
impeaching the president a second time
the impeachment process could start by
the middle of the week
and there's little doubt it would be
passed by the house which is controlled
by the democrats
whatever the timetable the backlash
against donald trump
is intense this from the former
republican governor
of california president trump sought to
overturn the results of an election
and of a fair election he saw the coup
by misleading people with lies
president trump is a failed leader he
will go down in history as the worst
president
ever the good thing is that he soon will
be as irrelevant as an
old tweet with his job hanging in the
balance mr trump is planning a trip to
the border with mexico on tuesday
he'll visit a stretch of the wall that
he promised to build in texas
on what may be the final official trip
of his presidency
there are nine long days ahead and
america
is holding its breath peter bowes bbc
news
los angeles indonesian divers are trying
to retrieve the black box
recorders of a plane that crashed into
the sea on saturday
the jet which had 62 people on board
vanished from radar just minutes after
takeoff
search teams have already found parts of
the aircraft mark labelle reports with
painstaking precision
parts of flight sj182 are brought back
above ground laid out piece by piece at
this port in jakarta
as rescuers now think at least the
positioning of the wreckage
offers a crucial clue as to what may
have happened
one indonesian investigator speculating
it ruptured when it hit the water
casting doubt on a mid-air explosion
so far we are focused on narrow areas
but we may expand we employed around 30
ships so going forwards
53 ships will be directly involved in
the search and rescue operation
the fate of the missing 62 people on
board is now their family's burden
including 23 year old crew member mia's
watching for news about her is her
brother who along with her father
still doesn't understand why she didn't
make her regular call to her mother
before flying we really appreciate
everyone's doing their best
we can only pray that everything goes
smoothly so that the plane and the
people inside
can be found the mystery remains
why did the aircraft drop three thousand
meters in less than 60 seconds
just four minutes after takeoff hopes
are now tied to what flight data
and cockpit voice recordings the plane's
black box might uncover
with its recovery said to be imminent
there are two signals coming from the
black boxes these can be continuously
monitored
so we can mark their coordinates
hopefully we can retrieve them soon
and identify the cause of the crash
meanwhile over 2 500 people are now
working
flat out to help find more of the debris
and
rescuers admit victims from the shallow
waters
in which they now sit mark lobel
bbc news
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app
and get the full story with bbc dot co
dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news